---
title: "9.2.0 Downgrade"
permalink: /9.2.0-downgrade.html
---

Some regions may downgrade to another version such as 9.1.0 or 9.0.0. This is fine as those versions function nearly the same for our purposes.
{: .notice--success}

If you encounter this error and cannot use recovery mode, you can edit the connection settings as long as the 3DS completely fails to connect to any access point (such as if the point is out of range).
{: .notice--info}

This version of sysDowngrader (which is compatible with >9.2.0 systems) uses an unstable exploit, and because of this it may take many tries to work.
{: .notice--info}

{% capture notice-3 %}
If sysDowngrader crashes at any point during the downgrade (which can happen occasionally), you can power off the system by holding the power button. You will be left with what's called a "partial downgrade" or "partial", which is recoverable.

Although a partially downgraded system may show 9.2.0 as the system version, you are not done. You must restart from the beginning of Section II and downgrade a second time to install any files that were not installed. browserhax will work for partial downgrades as long as you are using the recommended version of sysDowngrader.
{% endcapture %}

<div class="notice--info">{{ notice-3 | markdownify }}</div>

If you are are between versions 11.0.0 and 11.2.0, you MUST have [downgraded your firmware](firmware-downgrade) to successfully complete this part.
{: .notice--warning}

{% capture notice-2 %}
**All** variations of sysUpdater, *not* just sysDowngrader, have a *very* small chance of causing a "soft brick" once the downgrade is complete and the device reboots. This will cause the system to boot directly to the Nintendo error screen instructing users to power off the device.

The reason for this is unknown, but can be prevented by performing a system format *before* downgrading. It seems to happen very often on systems with ambassador status or who have DSiWare installed.

Once this error happens, it can *only* be fixed by using recovery mode (A + R + L + Up on the D-Pad) to update to the latest system version.

As of the time this is written, the latest version (11.2.0) has completely blocked all software downgrading, and if someone encounters this error they will be locked out of any further downgrading unless they downgrade their firmware.
{% endcapture %}

<div class="notice--warning">{{ notice-2 | markdownify }}</div>

**You MUST downgrade with the correct pack for your console/region or you will BRICK.**
{: .notice--danger}

#### What you need

* The Homebrew Launcher and an entrypoint (such as menuhax)
* The latest release of [sysDowngrader](https://github.com/Plailect/sysDowngrader/releases/latest)
* The 9.2.0 firmware pack zip file for your device and region:
 +    <a href="https://plailect.github.io/Guide/9.2.0-20E(Full)_n3DS.torrent" target="_blank">New 3DS 9.2.0 - EUR</a>   
 +    <a href="https://plailect.github.io/Guide/9.2.0-20J(Full)_n3DS.torrent" target="_blank">New 3DS 9.2.0 - JPN</a>     
 +    <a href="https://plailect.github.io/Guide/9.2.0-20U(Full)_n3DS.torrent" target="_blank">New 3DS 9.2.0 - USA</a>     
~
 +    <a href="https://plailect.github.io/Guide/9.2.0-20E(Full).torrent" target="_blank">Old 3DS or 2DS 9.2.0 - EUR</a>     
 +    <a href="https://plailect.github.io/Guide/9.2.0-20J(Full).torrent" target="_blank">Old 3DS or 2DS 9.2.0 - JPN</a>     
 +    <a href="https://plailect.github.io/Guide/9.2.0-20U(Full).torrent" target="_blank">Old 3DS or 2DS 9.2.0 - USA</a>
 +    <a href="https://plailect.github.io/Guide/9.0.0-20K(Full).torrent" target="_blank">Old 3DS or 2DS 9.0.0 - KOR</a>

<!---

 +    <a href="https://plailect.github.io/Guide/9.0.0-20T(Full).torrent" target="_blank">Old 3DS or 2DS 9.0.0 - TWN</a>

 --->

#### Instructions

##### Section I - Prep work

3. Copy and merge the `3ds` folder from the sysDowngrader zip to the root of your SD card
4. Delete any existing `updates` folder from your SD card if there is one
5. Copy the `updates` folder from the 9.2.0 firmware zip to the root of your SD card
6. Reinsert your SD card into your 3DS

##### Section II - Downgrading

1. Boot into the Homebrew Launcher (if you followed the previous part, you can do this by holding D-Pad down on boot)    
2. Open sysDowngrader
5. Press (Y) to downgrade to 9.2.0
6. If you are stuck being unable to acquire the am:u service, power off your 3DS by holding the power button and try again (this can take many tries)
7. Wait; do not touch anything even if it appears to freeze
8. If, after around 30 seconds, it is still frozen, it is safe to power off and try again
9. If you get an error before installation, power off your 3DS by holding the power button and try again (this can take many tries)
10. If you get an error in the middle of installation, follow the instructions in the beginning for partial downgrades
11. If you freeze on the "Rebooting in 10 seconds" line for longer than 10 seconds, it is safe to power off your 3DS by holding the power button
13. Clear Home Menu's extdata by navigating to the following folder on your SD card: `/Nintendo 3DS/(32 Character ID)/(32 Character ID)/extdata/00000000/`
    + EUR Region: Delete `00000098`
    + JPN Region: Delete `00000082`
    + USA Region: Delete `0000008f`
    + KOR Region: Delete `000000A9`
    + TWN Region: Delete `000000B1`
14. Reinsert your SD card into your 3DS and boot
12. If you still get a black screen after downgrading and deleting the folder, [follow this troubleshooting guide](troubleshooting#ts_sys_down)

Continue to [Decrypt9 (Homebrew Launcher)](decrypt9-(homebrew-launcher))
{: .notice--primary}
